## A novel convolutional neural network for identification of retinal layers using sliced optical coherence tomography images

### Abstract

pathological problems: 病理问题

OCT has been a transformative breakthrough for developing high-resolution **cross-sectional images.**

*what is cross-sectional images?*    cross-sectional 的意思是横切面，表达的是OCT 的 效果是得到横切面图像

for a proper diagnosis, imperative to delineate the multiple layers

**segmentation-based approach** to identify seven distinct layers of retina

present the SliceOCTNet, a customized U-shaped Convolutional Neural Network that introduces group normalization and intricate skip connections.

Group Normalization stabilized the model and improved layer identification even working in small datasets.

skip connections also contributed to an improvement in the spatial outlook of the model

*what is spatial outlook of the model?*

implementing a hybrid loss function addresses the class imbalance problem in the dataset

## Automated retinal disease classification using hybrid transformer model (SViT) using optical coherence tomography images

### Abstract

automated eye\retinal disease classification and segmentations using OCT or spectral domain OCT (SD-OCT) images.

difficult in classify because of their subtle differences and intricate features

proposes hybrid SqueezeNet-vision transformer model that combines the strengths of SqueezeNet and vision transformer, capturing local and global features of OCT images.

HIGH ACCURACY!

## Boost diagnostic performance in retinal disease classification utilizing deep ensemble classifiers based on OCT
### Abstract

damage to the retinal blood vessels is critical in diabetic retinopathy

简单的解释就是，糖尿病会导致这些血管的结构和功能出现问题，损伤血管壁，进而容易出血或渗漏

past model constraint in learning from diverse data types and structures and being susceptibility to overfitting with large and heterogeneous datasets, resulting in compromised generalization capabilities

propose a hybrid learning model for the classification with improved generalization capabilities. 

constructed upon ResNet50 and EfficientNetB0 

empowers the model to **excel in discerning intricate image patterns** while efficiently **extracting hierarchical prediction** from various regions within images

*what is hierarchical prediction and why?*

to enhance classification accuracy and mitigate overfitting, we **eliminate the fully connected layer** from the base model and introduce a **concatenate layer to combine two objective learning prediction.**

Notably, we address the interpretability issue, providing clear and insightful results, making our model suitable for deployment in ophthalmology clinics

### Intruduction

categories: DME & AMD, AMD consists of Drusen (dry variant) and CNV (wet AMD manifestation)

DME cause: disruptions iun retinal blood vessel integrity, culminating in the accumulation of fluid and proteins within the retinal layers.

Transfer learning minimizes the need for extensive retraining by judiciously transfering model information across tasks, even when those tasks are divergent or seemingly unrelated.

TL's profound impact on medical image analysis tasks, particularly where limited annotated data hinders conventional supervised learning approaches.

## Classification of retinal diseases based on OCT Images

### Abstract

OCTs offer non-invasive real-time, high-resolution imaging of highly scattering tissues.

ophthalmology 眼科学

morphological 形态学 changes often occur before the physical symptoms

A overview of the current techniques that are developed to determine the ability of OCT images and remarks several challenges in the analysis of OCT retinal images.

### Introduction

OCT captures different aspects of biology tissues, based on optical scattering and absorption(对于光的散射与吸收)

akin to ultrasound, but used near-infrared light and low coherence interferometry to generate 2D and 3D images.

three important characteristic of OCT:

- high-resolution: OCT 具有极高的分辨率，达到微米级别。使得OCT 能够清晰地显示组织结构的细节，能够检测到早期的微小病变
- cross-sectional：横断面成像，提供的是组织的横断面图像，能够显示组织的深层结构，基于这种结构，可以观察到视网膜的多层结构，并且量化每一层的厚度
- backscattering： OCT成像基于光的后向散射原理。人体组织中的结构会反射并散射部分光，从而根据散射的强度和位置构建出图像。

Two types of OCT: time-domain OCT(TD-OCT) & spectral-domain OCT(SD-OCT)

The extension of OCT is OCM  optical coherence microscopy

#### specific on retinal

OCT can be considered as a standard modality of imaging the retina.

the **morphological features**, such as the shape and distribution of drusen, cysts, macular holes and blood vessels can be easily visualized from OCT images.

Many of the used techniques rely on the consistency of the OCT lay intensities to provide accurate results.

#### Retina Anatomy in OCT

segmenting and measuring the thickness of each layer are considered as essential markers in assessing the health of the retina.

the width and shape of individual layers may thicken or thin over the course of different diseases that indicate the current progress or status of a disease.

only define the critical layers possibly covered in [this note](OCT数据集.md)

### Techniques in analysis OCT

#### Normal Health eye

Bagci: based on 2D edge detection scheme that suppresses speckle noise and at the same time enhance the edges along the retinal depth. A gray level mapping technique was proposed to overcome uneven tissue reflectivity and variance across subjects.

Rossant: using the knowledge about the relative position of the layers to segment.

Intensity inhomogeneity correction: 强度不均匀性矫正。

#### Glaucoma

NFL thickness and Euclidian distance between NFL and the Inner Limiting Membrane can be used as markers for the glaucoma disease.

## Classification of optical coherence tomography images using a capsule network - not good

### Abstract

Classical CNN has often been criticized for suppressing positional relations in a pooling layer.

capsule networks can learn positional information from images

## Classification of Retinal OCT Images Using Deep Learning

### Abstract

the accuracy of traditional approaches for classifying retinal disorders has ranged from 80% to 91%.

Dataset it used is OCT-8， 这也是这篇论文的一个贡献点

VGG-16 attains the accuracy 97%

## Fundus-Enhanced Disease-Aware Distillation Model for Retinal Disease Classification from OCT Images

### Abstract

Fundus 眼底，主要包括视网膜、视觉神经、黄斑和血管等构造

existing methods use multi-modal learning to complement limited OCT data with additional context from fundus images

However, the multi-modal framework requires eye-paired datasets of both modalities

propose fundus-enhanced disease-aware distillation model to address the above problem

enhanced the OCT model **during training** by utilizing **unpaired** fundus images and does not require the use of fundus images during testing.

a novel class prototype matching to distill disease-related information from the fundus model to the OCT model

a novel class similarity alignment to enforce consistency between disease distribution of both modalities

## Identifying Medical Diagnoses and Treatable Diseases by Image-Based Deep Learning
framework utilized transfer learning, which trains a neural network with a fraction of the data of conventional approaches.

highlighting the regions recognized by the neural network

